--- 
title: New Side Hobby
author: nathan 
date: 02 March 2024 
image: stretchingcats.png
aria:
  stretchingcats.png:
    alt: A tiger, a lion, a cheetah, and a house cat stretching with their butts in the air.
--- 

This post started inside of google docs where I was planning a video I wanted to make.
Yes, a video! I want to make video content. And to do that, I want to lay some groundwork.
I want to do it right. So, I want to make an Introductory Video, much like how I make an
[introductory blog post](https://www.reluekiss.com/nathan/p/100003).

Before we get to my video content ideas, a quick aside regarding the website. 

> Natalie and I have really fun ideas for the website. 
I want to do things like have an email list, have a comments section, make an email
server for @reluekiss.com, and other stuff. The problem is Astro (the JS framework that
makes this website now) is not Real Programming. I enjoy Real Programming. When I run into
a problem and solve it, I can rely on my previous Real Programming skills to help me, and
afterwards I add that problem to my stack of Real Programming skills. When I have an issue
with Astro, like in the `import.meta.glob` situation, there is not a Real Programming skill
that will tell me what the right answer is. All of this to say, I'm rewriting the website
in Go here soon, and you can bet your bottom dollar I'll be making posts about the
process. Specifically, hosting SSG vs SSR (the normal way) is something I'm super curious
about.

Now let's talk about this video. 

The purpose in making videos in the first place is just so I have more reason to look into
new things, learn, and because I think it will be fun. The video gets me to explore a
topic and it makes me form my thoughts into something coherent, which also helps with
learning. Mayhaps I am only learning a topic for a video, and that's okay, as long as I
find it interesting and it's not a very low hanging fruit. 

I would like to talk to the some-number-of-people whose brains click in the same way I do.
And because rephrasing isn't enough, I could contribute more by making the tutorial code
Real Programming code. As in, maybe not production ready, but not awful. I don't like how
people in tutorials constantly tell you "this is not how you would _really_ want to do
it". It's like, why are we talking about this at all then? I am not looking for the bare
minimum, worst-but-also-easiest implementation, I'm looking for something that is useful
to me. If that's too much to talk about, then break it up, handwave sections of the
example code and tell your audience that it's in the linked git repo, explain it in
another video (or blog post!), but at least put in the effort to make it not awful because
"it's just an example". I can also accept the "common" way to do something, and then throw
in where you would optimize. For example, using
[gorilla/websocket](https://github.com/gorilla/websocket) is a common way to get started,
but in [this talk](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LI1YTFMi8W4), Eran Yanay points out a
bunch of different optimizations you can do. I'm not saying every tutorial needs to be
this quality. I'm just saying the right answer, or something that helps lead you to the
right answer, should be more prevalent than the wrong answer. I want to do a video + blog
post about auth because holy moly there actually is zero resources for a production-ready
roll-your-own-auth thing (probably because there's so much money in auth).

This blog is one of my favorite things. Video is not a replacement of this beautiful
website Natalie and I have been making. It's more like I have an idea of what good content
looks like in my head, and sometimes video makes more sense. For example, when I do posts
like the `import.meta.glob`, I get frustrated at myself for not being able to express what
I want. Writing is hard! Like, really hard. And I think that a video where I do a code
tour is a much simpler way to teach. Other posts, like my [Abstraction
Essay](https://www.reluekiss.com/nathan/p/100006) don't click in my head as a video. I
think I wrote it really well, and it is very much an essay! Video and writing are not
mutually exclusive.

I think it would be cool to make a blog post, and then a video going into things that I
couldn't fit in it. I cut a lot to keep the shape of a post relevant. When I go on a
tangent in one of these posts, I feel like I'm losing grip of what I'm trying to express.
But I like rambling! There has to be a middle ground. Maybe one of these days I'll make a
blog post where I'm not allowed to delete a sentence if it has already been written. This
post has almost none of its original contents from what I had planned.

Feel free to join our IRC channel to talk.

tv.reluekiss.com:6697

