---
author: nathan
date: 13-Jan-2024
title: Javascript Grindset
image: "dogcar.jpg"
aria:
  dogcar.jpg:
    alt:
      a google street view image of a dog seemingly in the driver's seat of a moving car
      without a human
---

I've been programming as a hobby for about two years now. I started with Python, moved on
to Typescript through React, and since then I haven't quite moved on as much I would have
liked to. The unfortunate reality is that the tooling around web-dev server-side
javascript is really, really nice. I'm currently fleshing out some examples in my upcoming
project [no-magic-stack](https://github.com/nathan-hello/no-magic-stack) - a stack using
Go's builtin http router, htmx (super cool, but also popular right now which makes it less
cool), tailwind, sqlc (really cool), and templ (really really cool). I have been
implementing things that you get for free in javascript land for weeks now and it's not
easy. I think it's worth it, and once I get up and running on the stack I have some ideas
on cool stuff to do, but the tooling just isn't there. This is important to me because as
much as I hate the frontend - I really like making websites. It's the thing that you are
able to show other people with a link, something everyone can understand, you think that
what you're making (once finished) will be, if not a big hit, something that you can hang
your hat on. Of course there is pride to be had in every corner of software engineering,
and of course it's vein to care as much as I do about showing off something to my friends.
But dang it, I like showing my friends cool projects... even if I haven't finished one
yet.

Sometimes, through the couple years I've been doing this, I will have spent 10 hours in a
day on a project. Today was one of those days and I'm really happy with it. Not all of
those 10 were equally productive - much of it was fighting CSS to get the text to wrap
around the images like Natalie wanted it to (it was `float-left` the whole time!). But I
made a few really solid improvements to the site and to Natalie's ease of use in making
posts as well as customizing it in the future. I think the types I've set up for
everything is stable, and the code blocks are stable, and the images are stable, I'm
really happy with how this has turned out so far.

One of the reasons I haven't finished a project is because I don't know how to get off the
ground with frontend design. Everything I make is really cool, but when I go to show it to
someone, they recoil with just how god awful the css is. So, I try and try to make it look
good, not just for them but also for me so I can call it "complete". Give it the gold star
it deserves and move on. Granted, this has only been two projects, but one of them I've
rewritten at least three times so that's got to count for something. Natalie brought this
superpower to this project where she has a proper vision of what the site should look and
feel like, and she did the first 80% of it. I did some more tricky css bits, but it was
her vision the whole way through. I don't know how to make a design that has personality -
I copy what I can from flowbite and hope that it doesn't look like something out of the
chatbot.

One really cool idea she had was if there is an image to a post, it is not in the body of
the post but rather in the attachments at the beginning of the post. This is extremely
similar to image boards but ours is cooler because we can link multiple images and say
within the body "Image 2 is a picture of a dolphin". I like this because it keeps the body
unobstructed. To this end, I have attached a screenshot that is the website in its current
form. (Edit: I added it and I hated seeing it on the site. Some kind of recursion
creepiness combined with it being a lil pretentious. If you want to see it, look a the git
history [here](https://github.com/nathan-hello/personal-site) )

Up next to the site is hooking up a proper database so we don't have to do this manual
file nonsense. Doing it this way seems very prone to error because how will we know if a
link is 404'd forever because of some silly move or overwrite or something? I expect this
site to exist ten years from now, so I want to act that way. I also want to act in such a
way that I don't have to maintain it for ten years but for some reason that seems unlikely
(I have not ever finished a project, remember?).

Also I need to figure out how time works. We make these posts, and the time part is
optional. So, if we have a time, display that. If there's no time, js will default it to
12:00AM which is logical. So, if you don't see a time in the future that's why. But then
we have to figure out how time zones work. When you run `toLocalString()`, it says it does
it in local time - but what the heck does that mean? We're on serverless, and we
statically generate the html. I know there's a way to include timezone as well in the
creation of the date object, so again I might do it I might not. For future reference, for
the time being, I'm in EST.

And, we made all of these changes without sacrificing client-side js. There still isn't
any anywhere (check your network tab !) and if there is, we'll make a little thingy
somewhere about it. I see this as a challenging limitation, as well as a good principle to
follow. I think having no client js is worth some amount of sacrifice, just probably not
to the degree as Natalie.

Oh, also, I had this idea for Natalie. So the vlogbrothers (hank and john green) do videos
to each other on their youtube directed at each other. It started as an exercise back in
2007 or whatever because they felt like it would be a cool project to make them closer as
brothers, and I thought that it might be cute for us to do that here. Not every post, but
maybe once a week, either of us writes a letter to the other about whatever. And maybe a
rule is that we can't talk about the post except for within our reply (just an idea, that
would be impossible to follow through with).
