---
title: Posting!
date: 10-Jan-2024
author: nathan
---

I've wanted to make a personal website for awhile, but didn't have any good reason to.
Sure I could post myself, but really the only thing I could think of would be a portfolio
site. And given that I'm not particularly interested in getting a web-dev job anytime
soon, and also that any web-dev jobs I could ever dream of getting probably wouldn't be
impressed by whatever I'm able to copypaste from Flowbite - that wasn't interesting. But
we had an idea, I said to Natalie that I should make a blog site for us and here it is.

I'm Nathan - and on this side of the site I'm really excited to post about things I'm
learning about. Right now that's web-dev, golang, and (soon) networking. I'm probably not
going to post too personal of things at least until I'm comfortable with the potential of
my internet and irl identiies colliding - but Natalie is perfectly free to post whatever
she wants.

The site is built with AstroJS - something that's essentially a build tool for html
templating. We're not using any ui libraries (react, vue, svelte, etc), just plain html.
Html templating is really all we need, and if I want to do some client-side interactivity
then I'll throw on HTMX and play around with that. Natalie really cares about not having
client-side JS, so I'm going to put a flag somewhere whenever I do decide to make
client-side JS.

I did want to use something like Go to do the whole SSG situation, but I didn't want to
have Natalie learn any go or templ (a really cool html templating library for go), and
even so I wouldn't know how to do all of the cool SSG stuff that AstroJS comes out of the
box with. I have heard of Hugo, and even though that has more stars on Github, I just
think that adopting AstroJS and leaving AstroJS will be easier than Hugo. Also, I already
know about Astro, the DX is absolutely insane how good it is. And that DX really matters
to me because Natalie's experience in making her posts and her css and whatever it is that
she wants is important! I want her to have fun, and the higher the learning curve the less
likely she is to have fun.

This said, I very much plan on moving off of Astro to something that is decades-long
stable as soon as possible. I really want to have an in-browser post creator that uploads
to a database that we host, instead of making .astro or .mdx files manually. Doing it this
way makes sense for what I wanted (get a site up to production as quickly as possible so
Natalie stays excited about the project) - but it's not what I want for the long term. I'd
like to have a router written in some language (it really doesn't matter, I'm just on a Go
hype train right now), dependent only the standard library (something with Go is known
for!). This does, however, come at the cost of instead of caring about abstractions and
third-party libraries - I have to care about and maintain my own code. There's definitely
a situation in which this does not payoff. But I think if I write it well enough and
document it well enough then I could make a solution that lasts decades. Or maybe that's a
pipedream.

But yeah, next step - separate the data (these posts) and the view because the fact that
they're together is going to make more work during the eventual migration. But first
first, Natalie needs to write some css...
