---
title: Abstraction Essay
author: nathan
date: 16-Jan-2024
image:
  abstractions.webp:
    aria: "left: five plastic spiders labelled as concrete, middle: five written in tally
      marks labelled as represntational, right: the number five written arabic numeral,
      labelled as abstract"
---

I have this recurring nightmare where I make a website, ship it, forget about it for a
decade, and then I need to do a decade's worth of catching up to ever work on it again.
This is my personal problem with abstractions. They are really, really great for most
software developers who work in companies shipping products. You can rely on there being a
software team for the next decade to maintain, and if necessary rewrite, the website so
work can continue. Developer experience is important for this reason. If you ship products
quicker, your company will be more successful than the competitor that ships products
slower (even if theirs is marginally better/faster/more sustainable). Just for clarity,
when I'm thinking about this example, I'm referring to NextJS/React/RSC/that whole
paradigm. And this isn't much of an original thought, it's an argument that makes sense
from Theo. In an age where compute and data storage are so incredibly cheap, why bother?
Especially before you have properly figured out your problem space, you need to pick
technologies that let you quickly add features and rewrite ones that you inevitably mess
up.

But what if we had both? What if the ramp-up time for something like the
[no-magic-stack](https://github.com/nathan-hello/no-magic-stack) that I'm building is just
the same as something like Remix, NextJS, or SolidJS? What if there were something using
go that had a shockingly similar amount of DX? What if you didn't need 300 node modules to
get a todo app running? And really interesting to me, what if your entire website were one
single binary that you can ship anywhere (including static files). I don't know if that
binary would be any better than traditional deployments, but it sounds fun. Speaking of
deployments, what if they were as easy to make cheap as NextJS and AstroJS? With those,
you just use the primatives that they give you, and because the hosting platforms know how
the frameworks are designed, it's plug and play.

Yes, using htmx and go is a different mental model than React, but for me at least, it
just clicks. I'm sure other people have the same thing with Server Components, or React
Router, or whatever else. This is what makes sense to me, personally. So, when I say how
great and easy it is, I need to keep in mind my bias. I'm still a beginner to programming,
and I very much remember not that long ago watching tutorial after tutorial of someone who
thinks they know what to say to an inexperienced person, but is blinded by the fact that
they are not themselves inexperienced anymore. The most I can do is contribute to the
conversation with what makes sense to me, personally.

So, what makes sense to me? Well, I've struck my personal balance of comfort with
abstractions. Go is the middle ground, I feel like it being a fantastic http server
language is obvious.

Sqlc is barely an abstraction - you port in your database schema in SQL, you write your
queries in SQL, and it parses these two to output typesafe Go code. If you look at the
`.go` files it generates, it's not using its own library code for these queries. It uses
the builtin `database/sql` for the connections and requests to the database url. It uses
`github.com/lib/pq` for the Postgres part of the database and `github.com/google/uuid` for
UUID types. I'm sure there are others, but this is a sense of how extremely typical and
unobtrusive this generated code is.

Tailwind literally is CSS - even if it uses some JS to generate it, and the standalone
binary literally uses nodejs, I don't care because what comes out is a blank, normal CSS
file. It's difficult to call tailwind an abstraction, it's more like they just did the
work of making useful classes for you. All the program does is add in those classes
selectively based on what you're using so that way you don't ship a
[190kB file](https://v1.tailwindcss.com/docs/controlling-file-size) to every single user.

The most library-code of the stack is between `a-h/templ` and htmx. templ is probably the
more difficult one to justify. You can think of templ as React functional components, but
aren't very capable of running Go code within them. It's really just html templating but
the primitives of actually using it are so much better than anything else. It's a function
that returns html, accepts and gives LSP support for structs/maps/slices/strings/whatever.
You can't put that complicated of logic inside of the templ components, but this is fine.
Some might go as far as to say that logic doesn't belong at all in components that return
html.

And that brings us to htmx. This library I know the least about, is the most "library"
kind of piece, and is probably the most powerful out of all of these. Sqlc, tailwind, and
templ, all aren't that different from what they're supporting (you write sql for sqlc, you
still need to know css for tailwind, and templ is just html+go templating), all require
very little new knowledge to learn the library, and provide type safety. Htmx doesn't do
any of these. Although there is an
[htmx-go library](https://github.com/angelofallars/htmx-go) that provides server-side
typesafety, it would only be useful if it also provided typesafety and LSP support from
the client (.templ files) and the server. I believe this is impossible even in theory
unless one side (client/server) changes their syntax to allow for static analysis.

Sure, htmx is easy to learn from 20% -> 80%. But first understanding how a server responds
with html, what that looks like, the swapping strategies, and what the hell is ajax and
why does the documentation mention it all the time?. It sounds so painfully obvious now,
but there was a few weeks were I would watch "let's build a crud app" tutorials and be
more confused than before. It's not really until I built the todo app myself did I really
understand what htmx did for me and how to use it. Again, I know it very little because
there actually kind of is a lot to learn with it to get really good. But, htmx seems
really cool because it allows me to write so much less code for client-side interactivity.
It allows me to not care about the client much at all because the server renders the html
and htmx sends that html to the dom. Also importantly, it's _one_ javascript file, of
which I can host myself and keep forever. There will be this version of htmx available for
free on the internet forever. I could see myself giving up templ because it's an
abstraction that is relatively unstable and I'm sure I could figure out the builtin
templating if I cared enough to - but htmx solves so many problems and I assume it's
extremely stable. By allowing me to send html to the client and have the client know what
to do with it, htmx is what allows me to build this at all. Because this is the same
problem that React tries to solve - and it does it well.

But, I want to care about performance, and I want to not have my recurring nightmare. This
stack seems to be comprised of parts that will exist in 10 years. Go will exist in 10
years. SQL will exist in 10 years, and even though the sqlc parser might not update with
my database of choice (for now, postgres), by using Sqlc I am getting the SQL muscles I
need to learn. CSS will exist in 10 years, and I'm sure the tailwind classes will still
work, and I will bet that Tailwind will be updated with whatever new CSS comes out because
tailwind is how most people write CSS and I don't see that changing unless the browsers
implement CSS differently. Will templ exist in 10 years? Maybe not, and that will be a
shame. It's this fact that makes me consider using go's buitin template but the primitives
are so good. Also, what I'm writing can so easily be transferred in the future - it's just
html with some for loops! Will htmx exist in 10 years? Almost certainly, and if not, I'm
sure this current version of htmx will be just fine for most stuff. If it's good enough
now, it'll be good enough in the future because AFAIK, there aren't really any security
considerations with htmx.

In the most abstract way possible, this stack is what I think the web "should be". Say you
have a SPA, using a javascript library on the client to do client-side navigation. That is
no where near what the web was intended for. Putting aside the performance, SEO, and UX
issues with SPAs, they are in my mind, illegal. You shouldn't make them because you are
ignoring, putting aside, and almost mocking what thousands of engineers have spent three
decades curating: the web. To use javascript to treat the browser like a native
application is, again, in my mind illegal. (This concept is kind of difficult to come
across, so I've made these statements more pointy for conveyance reasons. I don't actually
think that people should be in jail for making SPAs. I do think it was a mistake.) In this
stack, we go back to what the web is supposed to be not because they are arbitrary
standards taken on from down high, but because these standards will continue to exist in
the next 10 years.

I'm building this stack because I think it will help me rest easy.
