src/blog/natalie/b_08.mdx, before:

---
title: Global linux adoption
date: 2024-01-18T11:37
author: natalie
image: linuxgraph.png
---

I was looking through some stuff and found an interesting resource, there was an [article](https://github.com/a327ex/blog/issues/44) I read in which the following image was in and it shows an interesting breakdown of linux usage by country, in summary most were about 10% with some interesting stand out countries.

## Japan & PRC

These twp seem like an interesting case of linux adoption in the PC market, on the one hand (in my limited view at least) they both seem stereotypicaly quite technologically futuristic (Japan on this one mainly). However their adoption of Linux usage seems to be fairly limited. I can posit a couple reasons for this:

-   The culture to conform is too deeply ingrained in the society and as such it would be odd to create a _personalised_ desktop enviroment for one's own use.
-   The other is that they both seem to use mobile devices or ASIC's (consoles, in the case of games) more frequently. Then in the other countries.
-   Typing using glyph type systems is not really as supported, there do exist projects on linux such as mozc which do bring great support for these languages, however due to a lack of support in lofts of gui software (mostly games), its not as viable.

## USA

Which brings me onto the next strange country, whhich seems to only have half the rate of linux users of other developed countries. As linux was developed with english in mind it's interesting that adoption is not as common as in other places.

Commit message:

removed aria from consts.ts, moved them all to their relevant posts

src/blog/natalie/b_08.mdx, after:

---
title: Global linux adoption
date: 2024-01-18T11:37
author: natalie
image: linuxgraph.png
aria:
    linuxgraph.png:
        alt: a graph showing the sales and activations by region for linux
---

I was looking through some stuff and found an interesting resource, there was an [article](https://github.com/a327ex/blog/issues/44) I read in which the following image was in and it shows an interesting breakdown of linux usage by country, in summary most were about 10% with some interesting stand out countries.

## Japan & PRC

These twp seem like an interesting case of linux adoption in the PC market, on the one hand (in my limited view at least) they both seem stereotypicaly quite technologically futuristic (Japan on this one mainly). However their adoption of Linux usage seems to be fairly limited. I can posit a couple reasons for this:

-   The culture to conform is too deeply ingrained in the society and as such it would be odd to create a _personalised_ desktop enviroment for one's own use.
-   The other is that they both seem to use mobile devices or ASIC's (consoles, in the case of games) more frequently. Then in the other countries.
-   Typing using glyph type systems is not really as supported, there do exist projects on linux such as mozc which do bring great support for these languages, however due to a lack of support in lofts of gui software (mostly games), its not as viable.

## USA

Which brings me onto the next strange country, whhich seems to only have half the rate of linux users of other developed countries. As linux was developed with english in mind it's interesting that adoption is not as common as in other places.
