src/blog/natalie/b_09.mdx, before:

---
title: AT-00-03
date: 2024-01-18T12:40
author: natalie
image: Spectral.png
---

Back at it again with the gooberism and this time it's equivalence relations!!! Apparenty mardown
has native maths support so I'm going to see how thhat works. Feels like we're back in algebra
but it's just making sure you paid attention to the definition of a homotopy. But lest I forget,
the actual question:

**3. (a)** Show that the composition of homotopy equivalences $X\rightarrow Y$ and $Y \rightarrow Z$ is a homotopy equivalence $X \rightarrow Z$. Deduce that homotopy equivalence is an equivalence relation.

A map $f:X \to Y$ is called a homotopy equivalence if there is a map $g:Y \rightarrow X$ such that $fg \simeq 1$ and $gf \simeq 1$. And another (I said it was just memory recall) two maps $f_0,f_1:X \to Y$ are homotopic if there exists a homotopy $f_t$ connecting $f_0$ to $f_1$. Here, one writes $f_0 \simeq f_1$.

In this question we are asked to prove if homotopy is **transitive**, which then implies it's an equivalnce relation as $1_X : X \to X$ is a homotopy equivalence, and X is homotopy equivalent iff Y is also to X.

To that end, suppose that $X,Y,Z$ are topological spaces and that $f_1:X \to Y$, $f_2:Y\to Z$ are homotopy equivalences with homotopy inverses $g_1,g_2$, respectively. By definition, then, $f_1g_1 \simeq 1_X$, $g_1f_1\simeq 1_Y$ and $f_2g_2\simeq 1_Y$, $g_2f_2\simeq 1_Z$. It suffices to show that the map $f_2f_1:X\to Z$ is a homotopy equivalence, which is immediate due to the fact that it’s continuous (the composition of continuous maps is continuous) and that $g_1g_2:Z\to X$ is a map for which

$$(f_2f_1) \circ (g_1g_2) = f_2 \circ (f_1g_1) \circ g_2 \simeq f_2 \circ 1_Y \circ g_2 = f_2g_2 \simeq 1_Z$$

$$(g_1g_2) \circ (f_2f_1) = g_1 \circ (g_2f_2) \circ f_1 \simeq g_1 \circ 1_Z \circ f_1 = g_1f_1 \simeq 1_X$$

Which gives us whhat we wished for.

**(b).** Show that the relation of homotopy among maps $X \rightarrow Y$ is an equivalence relation.

For it to a complete equivalence relation we also need to show the reflexive and symmetric properties, however, these are very easy. As $f,g:X \to Y$ are homotopic maps under a homotopy $\phi_t$, then $f \simeq f$ by identity and $g \simeq f$ by the inverse $\phi_t^{-1}$. So we again need to show transitivity.

Suppose that $F:X\times I\to Y$ is a homotopy connecting $f$ to $g$ and that $G:X\times I\to Y$ is a homotopy connecting $g$ to $h$, where $f,g,h:X\to Y$. Define, then, a map $H:X\times I\to Y$ which takes on the value $F(x,2t)$ for $0\leq t\leq 1/2$ and the value $G(x,2t-1)$ for $1/2< t \leq 1$. Continuity of $H$ is immediate due to the fact that $H$ is made continuous at $t=1/2$ (the only point of concern), whereby it follows that $f\simeq h$.

I'm not doing c, quote laziness.

Ok something a bit more interesting, which is a bit more topological in nature.

**5.** Show that if a space $X$ deformation retracts to a point $x\in X$, then for each neighborhood $U$ of $x \in X \thereexists$, a neighborhood $V\subset U$ of $x$ such that the inclusion map $V\hookrightarrow U$ is nullhomotopic.

Commit message:

removed aria from consts.ts, moved them all to their relevant posts

src/blog/natalie/b_09.mdx, after:

---
title: AT-00-03
date: 2024-01-18T12:40
author: natalie
image: Spectral.png
aria:
    Spectral.png:
        alt: The Adams spectral sequence for p=3, t-s <= 45
---

Back at it again with the gooberism and this time it's equivalence relations!!! Apparenty mardown
has native maths support so I'm going to see how thhat works. Feels like we're back in algebra
but it's just making sure you paid attention to the definition of a homotopy. But lest I forget,
the actual question:

**3. (a)** Show that the composition of homotopy equivalences $X\rightarrow Y$ and $Y \rightarrow Z$ is a homotopy equivalence $X \rightarrow Z$. Deduce that homotopy equivalence is an equivalence relation.

A map $f:X \to Y$ is called a homotopy equivalence if there is a map $g:Y \rightarrow X$ such that $fg \simeq 1$ and $gf \simeq 1$. And another (I said it was just memory recall) two maps $f_0,f_1:X \to Y$ are homotopic if there exists a homotopy $f_t$ connecting $f_0$ to $f_1$. Here, one writes $f_0 \simeq f_1$.

In this question we are asked to prove if homotopy is **transitive**, which then implies it's an equivalnce relation as $1_X : X \to X$ is a homotopy equivalence, and X is homotopy equivalent iff Y is also to X.

To that end, suppose that $X,Y,Z$ are topological spaces and that $f_1:X \to Y$, $f_2:Y\to Z$ are homotopy equivalences with homotopy inverses $g_1,g_2$, respectively. By definition, then, $f_1g_1 \simeq 1_X$, $g_1f_1\simeq 1_Y$ and $f_2g_2\simeq 1_Y$, $g_2f_2\simeq 1_Z$. It suffices to show that the map $f_2f_1:X\to Z$ is a homotopy equivalence, which is immediate due to the fact that it’s continuous (the composition of continuous maps is continuous) and that $g_1g_2:Z\to X$ is a map for which

$$(f_2f_1) \circ (g_1g_2) = f_2 \circ (f_1g_1) \circ g_2 \simeq f_2 \circ 1_Y \circ g_2 = f_2g_2 \simeq 1_Z$$

$$(g_1g_2) \circ (f_2f_1) = g_1 \circ (g_2f_2) \circ f_1 \simeq g_1 \circ 1_Z \circ f_1 = g_1f_1 \simeq 1_X$$

Which gives us whhat we wished for.

**(b).** Show that the relation of homotopy among maps $X \rightarrow Y$ is an equivalence relation.

For it to a complete equivalence relation we also need to show the reflexive and symmetric properties, however, these are very easy. As $f,g:X \to Y$ are homotopic maps under a homotopy $\phi_t$, then $f \simeq f$ by identity and $g \simeq f$ by the inverse $\phi_t^{-1}$. So we again need to show transitivity.

Suppose that $F:X\times I\to Y$ is a homotopy connecting $f$ to $g$ and that $G:X\times I\to Y$ is a homotopy connecting $g$ to $h$, where $f,g,h:X\to Y$. Define, then, a map $H:X\times I\to Y$ which takes on the value $F(x,2t)$ for $0\leq t\leq 1/2$ and the value $G(x,2t-1)$ for $1/2< t \leq 1$. Continuity of $H$ is immediate due to the fact that $H$ is made continuous at $t=1/2$ (the only point of concern), whereby it follows that $f\simeq h$.

I'm not doing c, quote laziness.

Ok something a bit more interesting, which is a bit more topological in nature.

**5.** Show that if a space $X$ deformation retracts to a point $x\in X$, then for each neighborhood $U$ of $x \in X \thereexists$, a neighborhood $V\subset U$ of $x$ such that the inclusion map $V\hookrightarrow U$ is nullhomotopic.
