src/blog/nathan/2024-01-13.mdx, before:

---
author: nathan
date: 13-Jan-2024
title: Javascript Grindset
image: 'dogcar.jpg'
---

I've been programming as a hobby for about two years now. I started with Python, moved on to Typescript through React, and since then I haven't quite moved
on as much I would have liked to. The unfortunate reality is that the tooling around web-dev server-side javascript is really, really nice. I'm currently
fleshing out some examples in my upcoming project [no-magic-stack](https://github.com/nathan-hello/no-magic-stack) - a stack using Go's builtin http router,
htmx (super cool, but also popular right now which makes it less cool), tailwind, sqlc (really cool), and templ (really really cool). I have been implementing
things that you get for free in javascript land for weeks now and it's not easy. I think it's worth it, and once I get up and running on the stack I have some
ideas on cool stuff to do, but the tooling just isn't there. This is important to me because as much as I hate the frontend - I really like making websites. It's
the thing that you are able to show other people with a link, something everyone can understand, you think that what you're making (once finished) will be, if not
a big hit, something that you can hang your hat on. Of course there is pride to be had in every corner of software engineering, and of course it's vein to care
as much as I do about showing off something to my friends. But dang it, I like showing my friends cool projects... even if I haven't finished one yet.

Sometimes, through the couple years I've been doing this, I will have spent 10 hours in a day on a project. Today was one of those days and I'm really happy with it.
Not all of those 10 were equally productive - much of it was fighting CSS to get the text to wrap around the images like Natalie wanted it to (it was `float-left` the
whole time!). But I made a few really solid improvements to the site and to Natalie's ease of use in making posts as well as customizing it in the future. I think
the types I've set up for everything is stable, and the code blocks are stable, and the images are stable, I'm really happy with how this has turned out so far.

One of the reasons I haven't finished a project is because I don't know how to get off the ground with frontend design. Everything I make is really cool, but when I
go to show it to someone, they recoil with just how god awful the css is. So, I try and try to make it look good, not just for them but also for me so I can call it
"complete". Give it the gold star it deserves and move on. Granted, this has only been two projects, but one of them I've rewritten at least three times so that's
got to count for something. Natalie brought this superpower to this project where she has a proper vision of what the site should look and feel like, and she did
the first 80% of it. I did some more tricky css bits, but it was her vision the whole way through. I don't know how to make a design that has personality - I copy
what I can from flowbite and hope that it doesn't look like something out of the chatbot.

One really cool idea she had was if there is an image to a post, it is not in the body of the post but rather in the attachments at the beginning of the post. This
is extremely similar to image boards but ours is cooler because we can link multiple images and say within the body "Image 2 is a picture of a dolphin". I like this
because it keeps the body unobstructed. To this end, I have attached a screenshot that is the website in its current form. (Edit: I added it and I hated seeing it on
the site. Some kind of recursion creepiness combined with it being a lil pretentious. If you want to see it, look a the git history [here](https://github.com/nathan-hello/personal-site) )

Up next to the site is hooking up a proper database so we don't have to do this manual file nonsense. Doing it this way seems very prone to error because how will we know
if a link is 404'd forever because of some silly move or overwrite or something? I expect this site to exist ten years from now, so I want to act that way. I also want to
act in such a way that I don't have to maintain it for ten years but for some reason that seems unlikely (I have not ever finished a project, remember?).

Also I need to figure out how time works. We make these posts, and the time part is optional. So, if we have a time, display that. If there's no time, js will default
it to 12:00AM which is logical. So, if you don't see a time in the future that's why. But then we have to figure out how time zones work. When you run `toLocalString()`,
it says it does it in local time - but what the heck does that mean? We're on serverless, and we statically generate the html. I know there's a way to include timezone
as well in the creation of the date object, so again I might do it I might not. For future reference, for the time being, I'm in EST.

And, we made all of these changes without sacrificing client-side js. There still isn't any anywhere (check your network tab !) and if there is, we'll make a little
thingy somewhere about it. I see this as a challenging limitation, as well as a good principle to follow. I think having no client js is worth some amount of sacrifice,
just probably not to the degree as Natalie.

Oh, also, I had this idea for Natalie. So the vlogbrothers (hank and john green) do videos to each other on their youtube directed at each other. It started as an exercise
back in 2007 or whatever because they felt like it would be a cool project to make them closer as brothers, and I thought that it might be cute for us to do that here. Not
every post, but maybe once a week, either of us writes a letter to the other about whatever. And maybe a rule is that we can't talk about the post except for within our
reply (just an idea, that would be impossible to follow through with).

Commit message:

removed aria from consts.ts, moved them all to their relevant posts

src/blog/nathan/2024-01-13.mdx, after:

---
author: nathan
date: 13-Jan-2024
title: Javascript Grindset
image: 'dogcar.jpg'
aria:
    dogcar.jpg:
        alt: a google street view image of a dog seemingly in the driver's seat of a moving car without a human
---

I've been programming as a hobby for about two years now. I started with Python, moved on to Typescript through React, and since then I haven't quite moved
on as much I would have liked to. The unfortunate reality is that the tooling around web-dev server-side javascript is really, really nice. I'm currently
fleshing out some examples in my upcoming project [no-magic-stack](https://github.com/nathan-hello/no-magic-stack) - a stack using Go's builtin http router,
htmx (super cool, but also popular right now which makes it less cool), tailwind, sqlc (really cool), and templ (really really cool). I have been implementing
things that you get for free in javascript land for weeks now and it's not easy. I think it's worth it, and once I get up and running on the stack I have some
ideas on cool stuff to do, but the tooling just isn't there. This is important to me because as much as I hate the frontend - I really like making websites. It's
the thing that you are able to show other people with a link, something everyone can understand, you think that what you're making (once finished) will be, if not
a big hit, something that you can hang your hat on. Of course there is pride to be had in every corner of software engineering, and of course it's vein to care
as much as I do about showing off something to my friends. But dang it, I like showing my friends cool projects... even if I haven't finished one yet.

Sometimes, through the couple years I've been doing this, I will have spent 10 hours in a day on a project. Today was one of those days and I'm really happy with it.
Not all of those 10 were equally productive - much of it was fighting CSS to get the text to wrap around the images like Natalie wanted it to (it was `float-left` the
whole time!). But I made a few really solid improvements to the site and to Natalie's ease of use in making posts as well as customizing it in the future. I think
the types I've set up for everything is stable, and the code blocks are stable, and the images are stable, I'm really happy with how this has turned out so far.

One of the reasons I haven't finished a project is because I don't know how to get off the ground with frontend design. Everything I make is really cool, but when I
go to show it to someone, they recoil with just how god awful the css is. So, I try and try to make it look good, not just for them but also for me so I can call it
"complete". Give it the gold star it deserves and move on. Granted, this has only been two projects, but one of them I've rewritten at least three times so that's
got to count for something. Natalie brought this superpower to this project where she has a proper vision of what the site should look and feel like, and she did
the first 80% of it. I did some more tricky css bits, but it was her vision the whole way through. I don't know how to make a design that has personality - I copy
what I can from flowbite and hope that it doesn't look like something out of the chatbot.

One really cool idea she had was if there is an image to a post, it is not in the body of the post but rather in the attachments at the beginning of the post. This
is extremely similar to image boards but ours is cooler because we can link multiple images and say within the body "Image 2 is a picture of a dolphin". I like this
because it keeps the body unobstructed. To this end, I have attached a screenshot that is the website in its current form. (Edit: I added it and I hated seeing it on
the site. Some kind of recursion creepiness combined with it being a lil pretentious. If you want to see it, look a the git history [here](https://github.com/nathan-hello/personal-site) )

Up next to the site is hooking up a proper database so we don't have to do this manual file nonsense. Doing it this way seems very prone to error because how will we know
if a link is 404'd forever because of some silly move or overwrite or something? I expect this site to exist ten years from now, so I want to act that way. I also want to
act in such a way that I don't have to maintain it for ten years but for some reason that seems unlikely (I have not ever finished a project, remember?).

Also I need to figure out how time works. We make these posts, and the time part is optional. So, if we have a time, display that. If there's no time, js will default
it to 12:00AM which is logical. So, if you don't see a time in the future that's why. But then we have to figure out how time zones work. When you run `toLocalString()`,
it says it does it in local time - but what the heck does that mean? We're on serverless, and we statically generate the html. I know there's a way to include timezone
as well in the creation of the date object, so again I might do it I might not. For future reference, for the time being, I'm in EST.

And, we made all of these changes without sacrificing client-side js. There still isn't any anywhere (check your network tab !) and if there is, we'll make a little
thingy somewhere about it. I see this as a challenging limitation, as well as a good principle to follow. I think having no client js is worth some amount of sacrifice,
just probably not to the degree as Natalie.

Oh, also, I had this idea for Natalie. So the vlogbrothers (hank and john green) do videos to each other on their youtube directed at each other. It started as an exercise
back in 2007 or whatever because they felt like it would be a cool project to make them closer as brothers, and I thought that it might be cute for us to do that here. Not
every post, but maybe once a week, either of us writes a letter to the other about whatever. And maybe a rule is that we can't talk about the post except for within our
reply (just an idea, that would be impossible to follow through with).
