src/blog/nathan/2024-01-20.mdx, before:

---
title: Looking Forward to the Future
date: 2024-Jan-20
author: nathan
image: excitementometer.jpg
---

Thursday was my first proper maintenance day for this site. Not much for new stuff, design, or anything that people might notice.
Just things that make it easier for me to iterate on the site. Importantly, now the site's urls are consistent and stable! I was
kind of scared of Natalie linking to a specific post for the past couple weeks because of this. Also, I added alt text to images
in a pretty cool way. Check out the repo if you want, but the overview is that there's an object in `consts.ts` and it maps a
filename to an object that has the accessibility stuff as the value. So, in `glob.ts`, when we grab the images using `import.meta.glob`,
it tacks on this accessibility object to the image. Also, comments coming soon. RSS a little later. Astro is not very interested 
in allowing md/mdx/astro files all go into an RSS feed at once.

Here's a question: "How do I store username and password information securely in a database and give the client a JWT or session token validating their session?". 

This quesiton seems impossible to answer. Even a high level overview, I can't find.
Every tutorial I see is incomplete, uses deprecated the one deprecated JWT library, completely skips over some vital step, doesn't set
up a web server for the JWT to show it actually being used, I saw on that literally hardcoded the user/pass into the JWT creation part. 
It's like these people are playing a game of telephone from the tutorials. There's no way they're actually building something following they're teaching. 

I think I'll write some tutorials. I've been wanting to do some kind of content in general (kind of like this blog!). I really
want to do a writeup on how I used `import.meta.glob` to generate the sites here, because it's 100% a hack and not the way either Astro or Vite
is documented. I also want to show off my [no-magic-stack](https://github.com/nathan-hello/no-magic-stack) at some point. In that stack, I want
to make a few sample web apps just to learn. It's been so much fun figuring out different things in Go, and I feel like I'm learning software
fundamentals by using it. After I get auth + todo app working, I'm going to make a twitch
chat clone (websockets seem really cool!), and I have a couple more ideas for after that: something to do with wasm (I would need ideas on
something sufficiently difficult for wasm to shine), and a service status page. Part of this is to learn, part is to show off a cool stack for
others to replicate, and part is because I really want a twitch chat clone that uses htmx/go/sqlc/tailwind to exist. I also want to 
flesh out thing like testing, stress testing (as in requests/sec), and token-based api auth. Maybe you, Natalie, can make 
some tutorial or documentation regarding the Latex stuff you had to go through recently (unless it actually was documented - I just know you were having issues).

Also, Natalie, you asked what I would want to do while you're over here in the summer. I know around this time I'm going to meet up with
our internet friends because they will be just a couple hours away - so if I can make it so you can come to this that would be cool. I will
get one thing out of the way, please don't expect me to be as good of a tour guide as you were when I visited you. Some things are easier 
over here, I think, because of the driving angle. But I don't really have anything in particular I want to achieve, except maybe to...

- take you out to dinners, to include nonsense american fast food to the point where you have an opinion on all of the big ones
- share a campfire at the lake and make marshmallows (it will be summer time!), camping is optional but I want to go camping
- drive looking all cool and whatnot and you're in the passenger seat and we're holding hands and I say "the music stopped playing! you're the DJ Ms. Passenger!" 
- show you around the capitol and the Smithsonian museums, especially the art one because I've never been to an art museum and the science one (the natural history one was very much just ok)
- take you out to this one korean barbeque place that's really good (unless there are peanuts I'm not sure if they use peanuts)
- shop for clothes and you can pick out outfits for me and then I say that it's doing too much and you say no it looks good on you and I cave in
- walk late at night like we did before and talk and hold hands, and then come home and look into each other's eyes for minutes at a time

I hope this answers your question :)

Commit message:

edited the post because reasons

src/blog/nathan/2024-01-20.mdx, after:

---
title: Looking Forward to the Future
date: 2024-Jan-20
author: nathan
image: excitementometer.jpg
---

Thursday was my first proper maintenance day for this site. Not much for new stuff, design, or anything that people might notice.
Just things that make it easier for me to iterate on the site. Importantly, now the site's urls are consistent and stable! I was
kind of scared of Natalie linking to a specific post for the past couple weeks because of this. Also, I added alt text to images
in a pretty cool way. Check out the repo if you want, but the overview is that there's an object in `consts.ts` and it maps a
filename to an object that has the accessibility stuff as the value. So, in `glob.ts`, when we grab the images using `import.meta.glob`,
it tacks on this accessibility object to the image. Also, comments coming soon. RSS a little later. Astro is not very interested 
in allowing md/mdx/astro files all go into an RSS feed at once.

Here's a question: "How do I store username and password information securely in a database and give the client a JWT or session token validating their session?". 

This quesiton seems impossible to answer. Even a high level overview, I can't find.
Every tutorial I see is incomplete, uses deprecated the one deprecated JWT library, completely skips over some vital step, doesn't set
up a web server for the JWT to show it actually being used, I saw on that literally hardcoded the user/pass into the JWT creation part. 
Why would not mention how to store the someone being authed with a cookie or something?
It's like these people are playing a game of telephone from other tutorials, or they cut out the useful bits because they themselves are
not sure if it's the right thing to do and they don't want to have a security breach on their conscious.

I think I'll write some tutorials. I've been wanting to do some kind of content in general (kind of like this blog!). I really
want to do a writeup on how I used `import.meta.glob` to generate the sites here, because it's 100% a hack and not the way either Astro or Vite
is documented. I also want to show off my [no-magic-stack](https://github.com/nathan-hello/no-magic-stack) at some point. In that stack, I want
to make a few sample web apps just to learn. It's been so much fun figuring out different things in Go, and I feel like I'm learning software
fundamentals by using it. After I get auth + todo app working, I'm going to make a twitch
chat clone (websockets seem really cool!), and I have a couple more ideas for after that: something to do with wasm (I would need ideas on
something sufficiently difficult for wasm to shine), and a service status page. Part of this is to learn, part is to show off a cool stack for
others to replicate, and part is because I really want a twitch chat clone that uses htmx/go/sqlc/tailwind to exist. I also want to 
flesh out thing like testing, stress testing (as in requests/sec), and token-based api auth. Maybe you, Natalie, can make 
some tutorial or documentation regarding the Latex stuff you had to go through recently (unless it actually was documented - I just know you were having issues).

Also, Natalie, you asked what I would want to do while you're over here in the summer. I know around this time I'm going to meet up with
our internet friends because they will be just a couple hours away - so if I can make it so you can come to this that would be cool. I will
get one thing out of the way, please don't expect me to be as good of a tour guide as you were when I visited you. Some things are easier 
over here, I think, because of the driving angle. But I don't really have anything in particular I want to achieve, except maybe to...

- take you out to dinners, to include nonsense american fast food to the point where you have an opinion on all of the big ones
- share a campfire at the lake and make marshmallows (it will be summer time!), camping is optional but I want to go camping
- drive looking all cool and whatnot and you're in the passenger seat and we're holding hands and I say "the music stopped playing! you're the DJ Ms. Passenger!" 
- show you around the capitol and the Smithsonian museums, especially the art one because I've never been to an art museum and the science one (the natural history one was very much just ok)
- take you out to this one korean barbeque place that's really good (unless there are peanuts I'm not sure if they use peanuts)
- shop for clothes and you can pick out outfits for me and then I say that it's doing too much and you say no it looks good on you and I cave in
- walk late at night like we did before and talk and hold hands, and then come home and look into each other's eyes for minutes at a time

I hope this answers your question :)
