--- 
title: Creator rant 
author: nathan 
date: 21 March 2024 
image: googleearthclearblueline.png
aria:
  googleearthclearblueline.png:
    alt: A screenshot of Google Earth showing a part of the ocean in which they used actual detailed photography.     
---

This post is a collection of thoughts I've had about tech youtube for the past couple years. At the bottom there is a
website update, if you're interested.

### When are tech youtubers going to get their mojo back?

Every time something novel releases and we turn to the tech
influencers for their expertise on consumer electronics, they read off press releases and give benchmarks without a
story. MKBHD's video on OpenAI's Sora, he doesn't actually say anything. No hard opinions or facts, he gives the
audience the same clips everyone else is playing (along with some other clips from Sam Altman), and not much for
commentary. Yes, it's conflicting that a youtuber is showing off a technology that could make his job more competitive,
and he somewhat addresses that but never in a serious way. There is this pseudo-intellectualism from youtubers sometimes
where they try to sound educated and nuanced, but when you think about what they've said, it's just questions without
any contribution to the overall narrative. A smaller problem is that every video/article has to establish the facts
about the product in case this is the first time someone is hearing about the thing. They have to set it up for people
who aren't chronically on twitter, but after all of the boilerplate, surely different media outlets will do something
unique right? They will provide some insight that the others didn't catch, maybe a novel use-case or perhaps some hot
takes. This is what's missing, and that's what I mean by mojo. I want youtubers to have stakes again. I want to see a
wet Linus walking down a Japanese street again. 

Maybe the content hasn't gotten worse, but I've gotten better. Over the past two years, I've gone from knowing a lot
about consumer electronics to learning about software. At first, it makes sense to draw a line between the products I
see and use and the software that powers them, but unfortunately no one makes content on this front. You can't make
content about this because most of the time the software isn't open source. There's nothing to talk about except for
using the products and the landscape the product falls into. This is where tech youtube is still very valuable to me.
When I hear about a new pair of headphones, a laptop, or a VR headset, a well written review will compare the gadget
with its competitors and I can get a grasp of the bigger picture - nothing exists in a vacuum. It's almost like I
outgrew the consumer electronics content I used to enjoy. I would watch a review on a keyboard or a graphics card with
no intention of ever buying it but I just wanted to know what's going on. 

But more and more lately, I'll watch a review and straight up not learn anything. Sure, the phone exists and it has some
specs, some ups, some downs, but the picture is complete. For phones, I give a pass because the market itself is so
extremely uninteresting for anything I care about. There is fierce competition in the $300-$600 price range, but above
that I'm just not going to care and that's fine. Companies figured out phones for the most part, the fact that each
generation is incremental is... fine. I don't like it, but until companies start making interesting products, I don't
expect the content around them to be interesting (again, for phones specifically). However, in my next phone purchase I
will be looking to put an open source OS on it, like GrapheneOS, so I'll be looking out for that, but that's not going
to be until my iPhone 13 Pro takes a dive. As much as I (now, thanks in part to Natalie) have a disdain for Apple's
business practices, they make really good products that I will probably still recommend to people. When M1 came out,
that was big and content around it was alive. People were excited again in a way that I wish we could maintain in a slow
cycle. 

Take 1: Creators are only as good as the products they have in front of them. The media is a reflection of their
audience so if we are going to be bored, they are going to be bored. It follows, then, that when there are boring
products there will be boring content. If a creator only shows benchmarks and gives a general guide on whether a product
is a good/okay or an obviously bad buy, then that's indicative of a company doing very little to excite their to-be
customers. 

Take 2: The inability for creators to make a "sum greater than the parts" of the products they have in front of them
demonstrates that they are lazy parasites who only do well when thousands of engineers invent a new toy. This
demonstrates that the value add of creators is so little that you are better off reading press releases and spec sheets
yourself.

After spending years watching consumer electronics content, I now have the muscles where I can see some benchmarks,
compare the products myself and come out with an idea of what graphics card my friend should buy, or what laptop I
recommend to my family member. Again, I got these muscles from these youtubers and I just hate that I've outgrown them.
I know they can provide more insight than what I have because that's their job! They spend the most amount of time on
these things, and I don't see how it's possible that my intuitions are on the same level as their research... unless, of
course, they aren't doing much research at all.

Sorry I haven't provided a lot of specifics, of course this is a general, nebulous, vibe of the content. If I were
taking this post more seriously I would provide some proper evidence. I will say that I stopped watching LTT and told my
youtube algorithm to stop recommending all of the LMG channels because there was a period of a couple months where I
didn't learn a single thing from any of their videos. Months! I would watch all of their videos (except for the quirky
cooling videos, those were always boring and for physics nerds), even through the controversies. I wish LTT as a brand
didn't water itself down to the degree that they did. Developer content has been more of what I enjoy. Software is a
rabbit hole where to be an expert in even the surface level fields will take multiple lifetimes (Rust joke here). It's a
treasure trove of interesting technologies and history of those technologies (see: X11, LLVM, and yes, web dev) that are
currently being iterated on. We haven't learned what makes the best programming language because there isn't one. There
are players currently rewriting the book on something as simple as "How do you make a mobile app?" with the new React
Native, or new programming languages like Rust and more recently Gleam, or new ways to think about your operating system
configuration with NixOS (potential Nix arc inbound). Above all, this hobby is more interested in creation. 

```
House M.D., Season 3 Episode 1: 
  
  Dr. Wilson: The fifth level of happiness involves creation, changing lives. 
  
  Dr. House: The sixth level is heroin, the seventh level is you going away.
```

If your "hobby" revolves entirely around consumption, then it isn't really a hobby. It's a grocery list. Likewise, being
an expert on these things is good for being the tech wizard of your friend group or your family, but, to go even
further, having opinions is not a real hobby. Especially if those opinions are those that you copied - at that point
it's literally just a list of things you know. 

This is why I watch so much of Theo and ThePrimeagen. They made a space on social media for senior developers to talk
about senior developer topics. You don't see them making tutorials on the difference between let and var in Javascript -
you see them talk about best practices from their professional experience. Prime does something like tutorials, but when
he does it it's in a classroom with in-person participants, a projector, and a script. But the bulk of his content is
talking about the industry, by way of going back and forth with Twitch chat and reaction content of other people talking
about the industry. This content is much less about my desire to create and more about my interest in their world. In
this space that they've made, I get a glimpse of a world of countless software engineers who go to work to create. And
these people aren't selling anything, they talk so much about their jobs because they have passion. I like hearing from
passionate people.

I would like to mention homelab youtube. This gigantic corner of youtube also has passionate people who are just nerds.
They like setting up their servers with their Home Assistant, their Plex boxes, and whatever else, because they enjoy
integrating technology into their everyday lives using open source software. However, every time I look into these
people's content, it's a) always some kind of tutorial that I'm not interested in doing right now, b) talking about some
freemium SaaS that I ask myself "isn't the point of all of this work to get rid of those guys?", or c) an exploration
into a use-case that I could never see myself doing. No, I don't want my coffee maker, window curtains, and lighting to
automagically do its thing when I wake up. I don't like tech like that. Keep it separate - my tech lives there and I can
walk away from it when I want. Yes, my coffee maker has a semiconductor in it, but it sure as hell isn't going to have
an app.

And again, that's why I'm disappointed in what MKBHD and LTT have become. It's like they read so many Verge articles
that they forgot that they are not the Verge. They are allowed to have stakes and hot takes. The whole point of creator
media is that you can cut through the nonsense and say something authentic.

PS. 

The website has comments now. This was the last feature that I cared about adding. If you're interested in how I made
comments work on an SSG site in Astro, you can see the source in the `/gh/` link at the top of the page. Natalie wants
to make it so you can do ">>number" to reference a previous comment, and I'll get around to that at some point. As well
as paginating the comments so if there's more than X, there will be a Page 2 with another X number of comments. 

I don't think I'm going to rewrite the site in Go. Astro's templating language is just so, so good. Even
[templ](https://github.com/a-h/templ) as good as it is, in a language much better than Javascript, isn't nearly as good
as what Astro has built (ironically, the Astro compiler is built in Go). I started to mess around with porting over the
components we made. I'm willing to put in the work to make it happen, but in the best case scenario it's just worse in
every way. I'm trying to think of ways to bring the wins from Astro into Go - like literally what the ideal solution
would be, all skill issues be damned, and I just can't even think of what would be better, especially with the
constraint of no new file types. I have a [PR](https://github.com/a-h/templ/pull/551) where I rewrote someone else's PR
for making templ's documentation website [templ.guide](https://templ.guide) using templ (right now it uses docusaurus,
an SSG framework made by facebook using javascript). I know how to do it, I just can't justify it for our site.
Component composition in Astro is good, the tooling is good, and at the end of the day, this site is still SSG. The only
server that exists on the site is the endpoint I had to make for posting/getting comments. This does mean, however, that
the site uses htmx for a) getting the comments on pageload and putting it in the dom and b) sending an error message in
case of an internal server error. This does break our promise of "no javascript unless specified otherwise". I don't
know how to specify that the site uses this library in a way that makes sense for the site. Maybe we'll have a
javascript notice with an explanation at the top. Natalie, this is something you care about more than I do, so tell me
what you want that to look like. Or, I'll resolve some skill issues and handroll the javascript necessary to get the
comments. There is no way around javascript unless we build the entire page on each page load through server-side
rendering. In my opinion, having a Node server building every page on load for every request... for a blog site is a bit
more egregious than some client-side JS to request the 1% of the site that is dynamic. Again, Natalie, tell me what you
think and I'll do it.

In any case, it is nice that (besides the earlier feature of mentioning previous comments), this site is Completed.
Natalie can do the quirky things that I love her for doing with the site, she knows how to do it, and I can rant about
stuff in a way that really brings me joy. 
















